This file documents some frequently asked questions, which got asked in relation
with the surveillance of my Tor-server. The version history of this file can be
found on https://github.com/shahn/wwwcip

First of all: I am truly surprised, that not a single journalist has contacted
me, who has by him self proven his identity or the integrity of his
communication. I strongly ask you to consider the usage of electronic signatures
and encryption technologies. Those technologies should be essential for your
daily work.

UPDATE: In the meantime, the first signed/encrypted emails arrive, nice!

Q 1:
How old are you, what do you study, which career goals do you have?

A:
I am 27 years old and I study Computer Science. I'd like to keep my goals and
further wishes to myself.

===

Q 2:
If every person using or interested in Tor is tagged as being suspicious, why
should you still use Tor? Can you explain to my readers why it makes sense not
to be intimidated by these new disclosures?

A:
The data I was able to look at shows how extensive the data collection is. You
can't escape surveillance by XKeyscore or related software by not using Tor - on
the contrary, instead of the information "Mr Smith currently uses Tor" and "Some Tor
user currently watches a video on Youtube", an intelligence agency directly
receives the information "Mr Smith currently watches a video on Youtube".

Every Tor user is sending a strong signal that he/she cares about democracy and
about the monitoring of all communication which is getting out of hand.
I can only encourage to take a stand for a free society.

===

Q 4: You now are (besides Angela Merkel) the only victim of the NSA's
surveillance program in Germany known by name. How does that feel?

A:
The level of reconnaissance is completely different, thus I do not
like this comparison. Every person in Germany is affected by unjustified
surveillance measures every day without this fact becoming apparent. This
particular case might make a great headline; the enormous scope of the
surveillance and the missing countermeasures especially for persons
unexperienced with technology are the actual scandal. I am shocked how easily
innocent persons can be targeted by surveillance and how intelligence
agencies take their course of action as granted.

Without wanting to understate the surveillance of one of my servers I would
like to mention that I could not find any evidence of further surveillance -
for example of my personal laptop - in the documents made available to
me. Of course, I can not rule out that these computers could be found in
other parts of the extensive XKeyscore program.

=======

Q 5:
We would like to know more about a technical detail: NDR talks about
"source code" which we do not fully comprehend. Maybe you can elaborate
where exactly the IP address of your Tor server has shown up.

A:
The documents seen in the video report were made available to me for the
duration of the interview. There I could see source code (actual program code in
a programming language unknown to me, with parts of C++ included), which
obviously represent XKeyscore plugins. This source code, which I have to rate
as being of generally low quality (contradictory comments, data copys with
errors, ...), indeed hardcodedly included the IP address of my server. I
could not find any references to external configuration files.

=======
Q 3:
I run a Tor-server. Am I subject of surveillance?

A:
Everybody is affected. Evidence, that the relays of all supporters of Tor are
monitored by XKeyscore, has not come to my knowledge - the central Tor Directory
Authorities seam to be a special case.

===

Q 4:
You are, other than Chancellor Angela Merkel, the only German, who is known by
name to be subject of the surveillance. How does that feel?

A:
It is a different level of surveillance, thus I dislike this comparison. Every
German citizen is subject of surveillance on a daily basis, without anyone
mentioning it. My personal case might be good for headlines; the whole
dimension and the missing protection measures, especially for less technically
experienced people is the real scandal. I am shocked, how easily innocent
people can get into the focus of surveillance. Intelligence agencies take that
for granted.

Without playing down the spying on my server, I want to note, that I could not
find traces of further surveillance. The documents made accessible to me,
contain no evidence that, for example, my laptop, would be target of special
surveillance. Though I can not say for sure, if other parts of the huge
XKeyscore program could contain such evidence.

===

Q 7:
I'd like to support your work

A:
I don't want to take any profit from being surveillanced. If you want to help,
you can support the TOR project, run your own server and talk to your
environment about data security and data privacy. Let this topic stay alive for
more than one day or a couple of weeks.

===

Q 8:
Did you expect the NSA to be interested in your personal data?

A:
After the leaks published by Edward Snowden, it was predictable that secret
agencies would be interested in the work of networks which enable online
anonymity - at least, that's what the published documents said. Whereas it could
not be foreseen that it would go as far as surveilling such servers, no matter
if they aroused further suspicion or not.

===

Q 9:
What are your personal consequences from being targeted by the NSA?

A:
I feel vindicated in my way. Only concrete actions can help us defend our
democracy; democracy needs privacy and security in every means of communication.
