This is an English translation of the document at
https://wwwcip.cs.fau.de/~snsehahn/Tor-Fragen.txt , which should be
considered the canonical source. I thank the translators and ask them to
contact me if they want to be personally credited.

This file documents some frequently asked questions, which got asked in
relation with the surveillance of my Tor server. The version history of
this file can be found at https://github.com/shahn/wwwcip .

Firstly: I am quite astonished by the fact that not a single journalist
who has contacted me has implemented any means to ensure the integrity
and security of his communication. Please consider using encryption and
digital signatures for your work.

UPDATE: I am now receiving the first couple of encrypted/signed emails.
Great!

Q 1:
How old are you, what are you doing at university, what are your
professional goals?

A:
I am 27 and studying computer sciences. I’d like to keep my goals and
wishes to myself.

Q 2:
If everyone who uses or is interested in Tor are automatically suspect,
why should anyone still use Tor? Can you explain to my readers why it
doesn't make sense to be intimidated by these recent discoveries?

A:
The data I was able to look at shows how extensive these data-grabs are.
Because of how XKeyscore and similar software works, you can't simply
evade surveillance by not using Tor. On the contrary. Instead of the two
pieces of information "Mr. John Doe is currently using Tor" and "Some
Tor user is currently watching a YouTube video" secret services will
gather the single piece of information "Mr. John Doe is currently
watching a YouTube video" if Tor is not used.

Every Tor user sends a strong message that democracy and the
proliferating surveillance of all communication are of great concern to
him or her. I can only promote campaigning for a free society.

Q 3:
I am running a Tor server. Am I also under surveillance?

A:
Everyone is affected by this surveillance. However, I have yet to see
proof that all relays by all supporters are targeted by XKeyscore — the
central Tor Directory Authorities are therefore in a somewhat
exceptional position.

Q 4:
You are the only named victim of NSA surveillance in Germany, other than
Angela Merkel. How does that feel?

A:
The kind of surveillance is very different, so I am not a big fan of
this comparison. Every German citizen is affected every day by unlawful
surveillance without anything ever being publicized. A singled out case
may be good for headlines but the incredible scale of surveillance and
the absence of adequate protection mechanisms for people with little
know-how is the real scandal here. I am shocked at how easy it is for an
innocent person to become the focus of surveillance and at the disregard
for basic human rights shown by secret services.

Without wanting to trivialize the surveillance of my own server I would
like to say that the documents made available to me show no evidence of
further surveillance of my private computer or other private aspects of
my life.  However, I cannot say for certain wether these further aspects
are covered by some other part of the extensive XKeyscore program.

Q 5:
One technical detail is quite interesting: The NDR (Northern German
Radio) mentioned "source code" which we cannot quite grasp. Maybe you
can tells us exactly where the IP address of your Tor server appeared?

A:
The documents shown in the segment were shown to me for the duration of
the interview. That is where I saw source code in a programming language
unknown to me (with bits of C++ thrown in) which seemed to be XKeyscore
plugins. In this source code (which I consider to be of mediocre quality
because of conflicting comments, faulty data copies, etc.) I found the
hard coded IP address of my server. There were no traces of an external
config file.

Q 6:
You seem to be an "extremist" in the eyes of the secret service — simply
because you want to protect your privacy and the privacy of others. How
do you feel about that?

A:
The word "extremist" has never been used in direct relation to me but
people who are given this title are working, as I am, to give the world
a little bit of their freedom on the internet back. Privacy is a basic
human right, not the excentric goal of so called "extremists".

Q 7:
I would like to support your work.

A:
I do not want to profit personally from being under surveillance by
secret services. Support the Tor project, run a server, talk to the
people in your life about security and data protection in everyday life.
Keep this topic alive beyond today or the next couple of weeks.

Q 8:
Did you ever anticipate that the NSA was be interested in your data and
information?

A:
Since Edward Snowden's leaks it was clear that secret services would be
interested in the work of networks like Tor which anonymize their users.
This was made obvious by the publicized presentations. The fact that the
surveillance would include the servers regardless of actual probable
cause is something that could necessarily not be foreseen.

Q 9:
How does being a target of the NSA change your personal life?

A:
I feel encouraged on my path. Only through actions can we defend
democracy in the long run. Democracy needs privacy and security in
communication.

Q 10:
Where did you run the server for the Tor network? The Tagesschau writes
the server ran with the IP-address 212.212.245.170 which leads to an
industrial estate in Nuremberg-Feucht. What was your role in the Tor
network? Are you going to continue being an active member?

A:
The server was part of a data center in Nuremberg. Where exactly it was
located is irrelevant — users from all over the world are invited to use
it for securing their personal communication. The server is playing an
exceptional role in the Tor network as it helps administrating thousands
of other Tor-servers. This makes it one of the most worthwile targets. I
will of course continue to be an active member of the Tor network and I
will keep advocating that others follow my example.

Q 11:
I was particularly surprised at how the NDR was able to find out the
address of your server and subsequently your name from cryptic data.
That means that all data which was stolen by the NSA end up being
publicly available. Or am I wrong and you contacted the media yourself?

A:
The data was not cryptic but comprised of regular IP addresses. You can
easily identify a server on the internet using this information. I am
not hiding my dedication to Tor and it is not hard to find out who is
behind the server. The NDR got hold of the documents which I was later
shown. I have never initiated contact with the media.

Q 12:
As an expert, can you tell us how big the iceberg under this tip really
is?  How much of all data traffic is actually being monitored?

A:
No, I have no further insight. However, since the content of emails is
being analyzed I have to assume almost complete and constant
surveillance.

Q 13:
Have you been able to verify the authenticity of the documents presented
to you by the NDR / WDR (Western German Radio)?

A:
No. The documents seemed very plausible to me, the lines were numbered
and the fit the pattern of previously publicized documents. I do not
know their source and would not like to speculate on it.

Q 14:
I am assuming that you are not interested in being singled out as a
person. If this is true, could you briefly explain why not?

A:
I do not fully understand the question. My name is public, as is the
fact that I run a Tor server. However, the surveillance is not only
aimed at me personally but at all of society in Germany and beyond.
Focussing on a single person is missing the point.

Q 15:
Am I right in thinking the documents are not "Snowden-documents"?

A:
My inquiries into whether the documents originated from Edward Snowden
have not been answered. I would not like to speculate.

Q 16:
What I meant by me previous question: There are probably a lot of
requests regarding your consumption of Club Mate, whether you like to go
out, etc. In other words: private things which exceed your commitment to
Tor. And I conclude from your answer that you will not respond to these
requests because this is not about a single person, as you said.

A:
No, you are actually the first who has asked this. But you are right, I
will not comment on personal details.

Q 17:
How did you start working on the Tor project?

A:
I have been volunteering at the Tor project since 2008 because their
ideals were in line with mine and I could help directly. I have
encountered a very friendly and helpful community of people who care
deeply about privacy on the internet. I was able to contribute my
knowledge of programming and extend it in the process. Additionally,
I've been involved with the project beyond simply running a server and
will continue to support it.

Q 18:
When and how did you discover that you were being targeted by the NSA?

A:
At the recording of the interview (June 6th, 2014).

Q 19:
Have you felt any personal consequences of the surveillance? Are you
still able to work and travel freely, e.g. into the US?

A:
I have not yet encountered any limitations. I have not been to the US
in quite some time, but I don't anticipate any problems.

Q 20:
What are the most effective ways to protect oneself against this
targeted espionage?

A:
In my view, Tor is the most effective technology available to us at this
point. Much more important however is a collective awareness of the
problem and respective behavior.

Q 21:
If the majority of internet users employed Tor or similar networks,
would the NSA be able to cope with the amount of connections to analyze?

A:
I would not like to speculate, but connection data is relatively small.
It is safe to assume that even today a huge amount of data is collected
and stored regardless of probable cause. The usefulness of this data
would of course be diminished if more people used Tor.
